This is a guide to help you with bind.

Some references which can be obtain by anonymous ftp to neat.cs (in /rfc):

(RFC1035) Nov 87    (Mockapetris) Domain Names - Implementations
(RFC1034) Nov 87    (Mockapetris) Domain Names - Concepts and ...
(RFC1033) Nov 87    (Lottor)      Domain Administrators Operations
(RFC1032) Nov 87    (Stahl)       Domain Administrators Guide
(RFC1031) Nov 87    (Lazear)      Milnet Name Domain Transition
(RFC974)  Jan 86    (Partridge)   Mail Routing and the Domain System  
(RFC973)  Jan 86    (Mockapetris) Domain System Changes and ...
(RFC921)  Oct 84    (Postel)      Domain Name System Implementation 
(RFC920)  Oct 84    (Postel)      Domain Requirements
(RFC897)  Feb 84    (Postel)      Domain Name System Implementation 
(RFC883)  Nov 83    (Mockapetris) Domain Names - Implementation 
(RFC882)  Nov 83    (Mockapetris) Domain Names - Concepts and ...
(RFC881)  Nov 83    (Postel)      The Domain Names Plan and Schedule
(RFC819)  Aug 82    (Su)          The Domain Naming Convention for ...
(RFC799)  Sep 81    (Mills)       Internet Name Domains


If you are maintaining name server data, you should at least read these:

	A) RFC1033
	B) "Name Server Operations Guide for BIND" by Kevin Dunlap. This
		can be found in the 4.3BSD manual under section SMM11. A
		version of this can be found in the SunOS 4.0 manual.
	C) manual pages for bind. See man/*
		

The rest of this file will show ONE way of setting up the data at UofT for a
subdomain of the toronto.edu and utoronto.ca domains.  The example shown is
for the "control" subdomain.


1.	Install the UofT BIND. Current version is 4.8.2+. This version
	has many bug fixes made and has a separate program for zone transfer
	(used by secondary servers) and negative caching.

2.	Pick the domain that you would like to be in and edit the
	/etc/resolv.conf file.  For an example, see resolv.conf in this
	directory.  The domain is control.utoronto.ca and the nameserver
	is odin.control.utoronto.ca whose address is 128.100.9.1.
	If you change your hostname, please notify whomever maintains the
	reverse address lookup data for your ethernet so that data can be
	updated.  If you change the name of your subdomain or want to add
	a new one, please notify hostmaster@cs so that the rest of UofT
	will know about it.

3.	Now create /etc/nsdata and copy the files in nsdata to it.  Edit
	them as appropriate for your nameserver.  The reading list will be
	very useful for making sense of the information in the nsdata
	directory.  The files and directories are:

	bin		directory containing some scripts that one may use
			with the nameserver.  They may depend on where and
			what you call the binary for name server. 

	domain		directory containing files defining the subdomains
			for which you are a primary nameserver.  Once these
			files are set up, they should not have to be touched
			for a while.  The real data for these subdomains is
			kept in the "primary" directory.  In this example,
			there are two files: "control.toronto.edu" and
			"control.utoronto.ca".  They both include the
			"secondaries" file and the common data kept in the
			"primary" directory.  However, in one case the origin
			is "toronto.edu.", in the other it is "utoronto.ca".

	named.boot	file containing nameserver configuration.  This file
			is specific to your machine and setup.  Edit the example
			file as appropriate.  Comment lines start with a ';'.

	named.ca	file allows your nameserver to orient itself in
			the world.  You should not touch it by yourself.

	named.local	file defines the loopback address on your machine.
			Use it as a guide and edit the SOA and NS lines
			appropriately depending on your domain and hostname.
			You will then never need to touch this file again.

	primary		directory containing data for which your nameserver
			is a primary server.

	ptrprimary	directory containing the address to name mapping data
			for which your nameserver is a primary server.  Note
			that in this example, there is a

				$INCLUDE secondaries utoronto.ca.

			line.  If your primary domain is toronto.edu then you
			should change that line accordingly.

	secondaries	file containing the names of the machines that are
			secondaries for all University of Toronto machines.
			You should not touch it by yourself.


If any of the common configuration files change (named.ca, secondaries),
you will be notified via the hosts-dist mailing list.


Dennis Ferguson <dennis@gw.ccie>
Johnny Chee-Wah <johncw@gpu.utcs>
Rayan Zachariassen <rayan@cs>
